hey this is presto Walker reminding you
to mind your decisions you are given a
normal die and a blank die label the
blank die
using the number 0 to 6 so that when you
roll the two dice the sum shows each
whole number from 1 to 12 with equal
chance you can use a number more than
once or not at all so you could label
the phases 1 2 3 4 4 5 but you do have
to label all six phases of the blank die
this was asked as an interview question
at Amazon before I go any further I want
to share an important point about these
probability videos I received an email
from dr. Gleb Yacouba who's an assistant
professor at the University of
Nottingham in the UK he writes hi I just
wanted to let you know I mentioned your
puzzle what is the distance between two
random points in a square in my recent
research paper I thought it would be
good to show how your channel can not
only stimulate students including those
in my class but also stimulate research
questions thank you so much for letting
me know
I know probability is not everyone's
favorite subject but these videos are
important so I'll share probability
videos from time to time so going back
to the puzzle pause if you'd like to
give it a try and when you're ready keep
watching the video to learn how to solve
this problem
[Music]
so how can we solve this problem we'll
get started with an observation when you
roll two six-sided fair dice you get six
times six which equals 36 equally likely
outcomes let's make a little table of
this the standard fair die will have the
phases one through six the mystery die
will have six unknown faces
we need these thirty-six sums to be
divided into twelve equally likely sums
because we need the numbers one through
twelve to occur with equal chance
so each sum has to appear 36 divided by
12 which equals three times we need
three entries of 12 three entries of 11
and so on all the way to three entries
of one now how do we get three entries
of twelve well six is the largest number
that we can put on the mystery die so
notice the only way we could get a sum
of 12 is 6 plus 6 so that means we're
going to need 3 faces to be labeled with
6 that's the only way we can get 3 sums
of 12 now by similar logic how can we
get a sum of 1 well 0 is the smallest
number for the mystery die and the only
way we can get a sum of 1 is if we do 0
plus 1 so we're going to need 3 faces to
be labeled as 0 so now we've actually
labeled all 6 faces do we have a
solution let's fill in the rest of the
songs the first row goes from 1 to 6 and
the next two rows will be the same then
this row will go from 7 to 12 and the
next two rows will be the same and look
at this table carefully each sum from 1
to 12 appears exactly 3 times and by
magic we have found the answer the
mystery die needs to be labeled with
three faces of 0 and three faces of 6 so
we kind of lucked into the answer and
that's good for this problem and it
would be great in an interview but how
would you solve this problem
in a more systematic way I want to show
you another method it'll be a lot more
complicated but it's a powerful tool to
solve such problems the method is called
probability generating functions if Z is
a discrete random variable on the
non-negative integers and P I is the
probability that Z is equal to I then we
define the probability generating
function of Z as follows
it'll be the polynomial with terms P sub
I multiplied by X to the power of I so
let's create the probability generating
function for the fair die well the fair
die takes the realizations of 1 through
6 and each is equally likely to occur
with the chance of 1 over 6 so what's
its probability generating function what
we do is we attach the coefficients of X
sub I to the probability of I we can now
factor out 1 over 6 so here's a
probability generating function of the
fair die we can similarly create the
mystery die and here's the probability
generating function of the sums so why
have we done all this it seems like we
made the problem more complicated well
here's the key property the generating
function of a sum of independent random
variables is the product of the
individual generating functions so we
have d of X multiplied by M of X is
equal to u of X if we divide both sides
by d of X we can solve that M of X is
equal to the ratio of U of x over D of X
so in order to solve for this mystery
die we can take this polynomial division
and I can just hear some students saying
when will we ever need this well it
looks like polynomial division could
actually help you get a high paying job
so how do we solve this problem let's go
through the steps I'll just give an
outline form we want to divide U of x by
D of X so notice the highest power and U
of X is X to the power of 12 and that's
multiplied by 1 12 and here we have X to
the power 6 multiplied by
one six so to get the highest powers to
match we're going to multiply it by one
half of X to the power of six so when we
do that we're actually going to
eliminate all of these terms going from
X to the power of seven to X to the
power of 12 so what are we left with
well let's expand out U of X the next
highest power will be X to the power of
six we have one twelfth of X to the
power 6 and here we have one sixth of X
to the power of six so we're going to
multiply this by one half which is also
equal to one half of x times zero we
multiply this out and then we subtract
and we actually cancel out all of these
terms so we end up with no remainder so
that's it L of X is equal to one half
multiplied by X to the power of zero
plus one half multiplied by X to the
power of six now the mystery die has six
phases so we'll rewrite it as three over
six times X to the power of zero plus
three over six times X to the power six
and now we can read off the coefficients
to see the mystery diet needs to be
labeled with three faces of zero and
three faces of six incredible I think
this is a great interview question
because you could solve it with the high
power tools of probability generating
functions but you could also solve it
logically considering how the mystery
diner you to get the correct songs
thanks for watching and for making mind
your decisions one of the best channels
on YouTube thanks for watching and
thanks for your support
[Music]